### Oct 2

[[2309.16757\] A SPectroscopic survey of biased halos In the Reionization Era (ASPIRE): JWST Discovers an Overdensity around a Metal Absorption-selected Galaxy at $z\sim5.5$ (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16757)

**Aims: ** The authors aims to use the JWST data to study the connection between metal-line absorbers and galaxies at the end of the epoch of reionization.

**Methods:** The authors used the NIRCam Wide Field Slitless Spectroscopy (WFSS) to search for absorber-associated galaxies by detecting their rest-frame optical emission lines.

**Results: **

1. They report the discovery of a MgII-associated galaxy at z=5.428 using data from the JWST ASPIRE program.
2. **Absorbers: ** The MgII absorber is detected on the spectrum of qusar J0305-3150 with a rest-frame equivalent width of 0.74. Angstrom.
3. **Galaxy: ** The associated galaxy has an [O III] luminosity of $10^{42.5} \rm{erg\ s^{-1}}$ with an impact parameter of 24.9 proper kpc. The SED-derived stellar mass and stellar forming  rate is $\rm M_{*} = 10^{8.8} M_{\odot}$ and $\rm SFR \simeq 10\ M_{\odot}\ yr^{-1}$. Its [OIII] equivalent width and stellar mass are typical of [OIII] emitters at this redshift.  Furthermore, connecting the outflow starting time to the SED-derived stellar age, the outflow velocity of this galaxy is ∼300 km s−1, consistent with theoretical expectations. 

**Conclusions: ** This pilot study suggests that systematically investigating the absorber-galaxy connection within the ASPIRE program will provide insights into the metal-enrichment history in the early universe.

[[2309.16832\] ALMA Lensing Cluster Survey: average dust, gas, and star formation properties of cluster and field galaxies from stacking analysis (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.16832)

**Aims: ** The authors develop new tools for continuum and spectral stacking of ALMA data, and apply these to the ALMA Lensing Cluster Survey.

**Methods: ** The authors derived average dust masses, gas masses and star-formation rates from the stacked observed 260GHz continuum of 3402 individually undetected star-forming galaxies. The sample consist of 1450 cluster galaxies  and 19552 field galaxies over three redshift and stellar mass bins. The author also derive the molecular gas content by stacking the emission line spectra in a SFR-selected subsample.

**Results: **

1. The average SFRs and specific SFRs of both cluster and field galaxies are lower than those expected for MS star-forming galaxies, and only galaxies with stellar mass of 9.36-10.6 $\rm log(M_{*}/M_{\odot})$ show dust and gas fractions comparable to those in the MS.
2.  The ALMA-traced average ‘highly obscured’ SFRs are typically lower than the SFRs observed from optical to near-IR spectral analysis.
3. Cluster and field galaxies show similar trends in their contents of dust and gas, even when field galaxies were brighter in the stacked maps.
4. . From spectral stacking we find a potential CO (𝐽 = 4 → 3) line emission (SNR ∼ 4) when stacking cluster and field galaxies with the highest SFRs.

[[2309.17386\] The ALMA REBELS survey: obscured star formation in massive Lyman-break galaxies at z = 4-8 revealed by the IRX-$β$ and $M_{\star}$ relations (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.17386)

**Aims: ** The research focuses on investigating obscured star formation in Lyman-break galaxies (LBGs) at high redshifts.

**Methods: ** The author observe 49 massive ($\rm log_{10}{(M_{*}/M_{\odot})}$)Lyman break galaxies at $z = 6.5-8$. The observations is part of the ALMA Reionization Era Bright Emission line Survey (REBELS).  By creating deep stacks of the photometric data and the REBELS ALMA measurements we determine the average rest-frame UV, optical and far-infrared (FIR) properties.

**Results: **

1. **UV Slope**: Bright LBGs at these redshifts exhibit bluer UV colors ($\beta \simeq -2.2$) than those expected when extrapolating from the colour-magnitude relation of fainter galaxies. This suggests that the brightest galaxies might have different dust content or star formation histories.
2. **Obscured Star Formation**: Through analysis of the UV, optical, and far-infrared (FIR) properties, they find that a significant fraction ($f_{obs}=0.4-0.7$) of star formation in these galaxies is obscured by dust.
3. **Comparison with $z \simeq$4-6 Galaxies**: Data from another ALMA program called ALPINE is reanalyzed for 108 galaxies at redshifts $z \simeq 4-6$. The research concludes that galaxies from z≃4-8 show a consistent IRX-β relationship.
4. **Local Calibration**: Using a specific model for FIR light emission, they find that the REBELS galaxies follow the local "Calzetti-like" starburst Infrared-excess (IRX)-β relation, which connects the amount of obscured star formation to the observed UV color.
5. **IRX-M⋆ Relation**: Comparing the relation of IRX to stellar mass (M⋆) for galaxies at high redshifts with those at lower redshifts (z<4) reveals that the higher redshift galaxies have a lower proportion of obscured star formation for a given stellar mass.

**Conclusions: **

1. The findings suggest that at high redshifts (z>4), for a given stellar mass, galaxies tend to have a lesser proportion of their star formation obscured by dust compared to lower-redshift galaxies. This could be due to several factors including the dust content, star formation histories, or the interaction with the environment.
2. The derived IRX-β results for these high-redshift galaxies align well with the predictions of simulations and semi-analytic models, confirming the models' accuracy for galaxies at around z≃7 with similar stellar masses and star formation rates.

### Oct 3

[[2310.00424\] Evolution of Gas Flows along the Starburst to Post-Starburst to Quiescent Galaxy Sequence (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.00424)

**Aims: ** This study aims to understand the changes in neutral galactic winds (specifically, outflows and inflows) in galaxies as they evolve, using the Na D interstellar medium absorption lines as a tracer for these winds.

**Methods: ** The study analyzes around 80,000 spectra from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) for galaxies with redshifts between 0.010 and 0.325.  The sample consists of starburst (intense star-forming phase), post-starburst (recently finished star-forming phase), and quiescent galaxies (little to no star formation). This sequence represents the evolutionary stages of declining star formation activity in galaxies.

**Results: ** 

1. **Outflows diminish as galaxies evolve**: As galaxies move from the starburst phase to post-starburst and then to a quiescent state, the fraction of outflows decreases. This means fewer galaxies show signs of gas moving away from their centers.
2. **Velocity Shift**: The speed (velocity) of these outflows also changes along this sequence. Initially, there is a strong outflow, but over time this outflow reduces in speed and eventually turns into inflow by the time galaxies reach the quiescent phase.
3. **Post-Starburst Observations**: In galaxies that have recently stopped their starburst activity, the wind speed drops as time since the last starburst event increases. This indicates that the influence of the starburst on the winds diminishes over time. Furthermore, in post-starburst stage,  there is evidence for an AGN contribution, especially to the speediest outflows: 1)  there is evidence for an AGN contribution, especially to the speediest outflows; 2) Some of the strongest outflows are associated with Seyfert galaxies, which have active AGNs.
4. **Disky Starburst Galaxies**: For disky starburst galaxies, however, the trends suggest flows out of the stellar disk plane (with outflow 1/2-opening angle >45 degree) instead of from the nucleus: the wind velocity decreases as the disk becomes more edge-on, and the outflow fraction, constant at ∼90% for disk inclinations i<45 degree, steadily decreases from ∼90 to 20% for i>45 degree.

[[2310.01112\] Low-mass bursty galaxies in JADES efficiently produce ionising photons and could represent the main drivers of reionisation (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.01112)

**Aims: ** The authors study the evolution of the ionizing photon production efficiency $\xi_{ion}$ observed to increase with redshift.

**Methods: ** The authors used the combinations of the medium and wide bands F335M-F356W and F410M-F444W to constrain emission lines that trace $\xi_{ion}$ of 677 galaxies at $z \sim 4-9$. The flux measurements obtained via photometry are consistent with FRESCO and NIRSpec-derived fluxes. Moreover, the emission-line-inferred measurements are in tight agreement with the $\texttt{Prospector}$ estimates.

**Results: ** 

1. We also confirm the observed  $\xi_{ion}$ trend with redshift and $\rm M_{UV}$, and find: $\rm{log} \xi_{ion}(z,M_{UV})=(0.05±0.02)z+(0.11±0.02)M_{UV}+(27.33±0.37)$.
2. We see a clear correlation between $\xi_{ion}$ and burstiness in the star formation history of galaxies, given by the ratio of recent to older star formation, where burstiness is more prevalent at lower stellar masses.
3. We also convolve our ξion relations with luminosity functions from the literature, and constant escape fractions of 10 and 20\%, to place constraints on the cosmic ionizing photon budget. 

**Conclusions: **

1.  By combining our results, we find that if our sample is representative of the faint low-mass galaxy population, galaxies with bursty star formation are efficient enough in producing ionizing photons and could be responsible for the reionization of the Universe.

### Oct 4

[[2310.01473\] A modern view of galaxies and their stellar populations (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.01473)

### Oct 5

[[2310.02500\] UNCOVER: The rest ultraviolet to near infrared multiwavelength structures and dust distributions of sub-millimeter-detected galaxies in Abell 2744 (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02500)

**Aims: ** Using the powerful instruments of JWST, combined with data from ALMA and HST, the study focuses on examining the multiwavelength structures of certain sub-millimeter detected galaxies in the region of Abell 2744.

**Methods: ** The study involves 11 sub-millimeter detected galaxies, which range in redshift from z~0.9 to 3.5. These galaxies are fainter than the traditionally bright sub-millimeter galaxies (SMGs), indicating they might have different characteristics and histories.

**Results: ** 

1. **Diverse Structures**: These galaxies show a variety of structures and sizes. However, they all share a common trait: their sizes decrease and their central concentration increases when moving to longer wavelengths.
2. **Stellar Mass vs. Optical Light Profiles**: The smaller sizes at longer wavelengths suggest that the distribution of stellar mass in these galaxies is more compact compared to the distribution of their optical light. This is likely a result of dust obscuration being more concentrated towards the center of these galaxies.
3. **Dust Concentration Correlation**: Galaxies with a higher central concentration are observed to have more significant size differences when comparing NIR to optical wavelengths. This finding suggests that the galaxies with the tightest light distributions also possess the most centrally concentrated dust.
4. **Dust Geometry Over Quantity**: Among the studied galaxies, those with the most pronounced size differences between NIR and optical wavelengths don't necessarily exhibit higher 1.2mm flux densities. The researchers conclude that it's not just the overall quantity of dust in a galaxy that determines these size differences, but more importantly, how this dust is distributed or its geometry.

**Conclusions: ** The study mentions that higher resolution imaging from ALMA (at 1.2mm) in the future will allow for more detailed spatially-resolved analysis. This would provide direct insights into the dust distribution patterns within this sub-millimeter galaxy sample.

[[2310.02314\] Bursty star formation and galaxy-galaxy interactions in low-mass galaxies 1 Gyr after the Big Bang (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.02314)

**Aims: ** The goal was to look into how star formation behaves in low-mass galaxies during the redshift range z∼4.7−6.5, which corresponds to an era when the universe was just about 1 billion years old or even younger.

**Methods: ** The authors use he Lyman break selection and photometric emission-line excess methods to select 123 galaxies behind the gravitationally-lensing cluster MACS J0417.5-1154.

**Results: ** 

1. **Observations on Star Formation Burstiness**: 60% of the galaxies in the sample have Hα-to-UV flux ratios that don't align with steady, smooth star formation histories. This implies that the majority of these low-mass galaxies are undergoing irregular or "bursty" star formation events. These are episodes where star formation rates rapidly increase and then decrease instead of a steady, gradual process.
2. **Galaxy Interactions**: The paper identified a high occurrence of galaxy interactions: about 40% of the galaxies seem to be interacting with others. These galaxies were found to have very low Hα-to-UV ratios, suggesting these interactions cause a rapid rise in star formation, followed by a quick quenching within very short cosmological timescales.

**Conclusions: ** Given the high frequency of galaxy-galaxy interactions and the noticeable effect they have on star formation, the researchers suggest that these interactions might be a primary driver for the bursty star formation observed in these low-mass, high-redshift galaxies. The findings imply that in the early universe, galaxy interactions played a pivotal role in the evolution of galaxies.

### Oct 6

[[2310.03063\] $Λ$CDM not dead yet: massive high-z Balmer break galaxies are less common than previously reported (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03063)

**Aims: ** The JWST had previously observed what they called "double-break sources", thought to be the result of both Lyman and Balmer breaks, indicating very distant galaxies at $z>7$. This surprising discovery led to a flurry of attempts to explain these objects’ unexpected existence including invoking alternatives to the standard ΛCDM cosmological paradigm.  

**Background: **To test these early results, we adopted the same double-break candidate galaxy selection criteria to search for such objects in the JWST images of the CAnadian NIRISS Unbiased Cluster Survey (CANUCS).

**Methods: ** They found a sample of 19 sources over five independent CANUCS fields that cover a total effective area of ∼60 arcmin2 at 𝑧 ∼ 8.

**Results: **

1.  **SED fitting and spectroscopy: ** Our SED fits do not yield exceptionally high stellar masses for our candidates. In addition, spectroscopy of five of the candidates shows that while all five are at high redshifts, their red colours are due to high-EW emission lines in star-forming galaxies rather than Balmer breaks in massive, evolved systems. 
2. **Field-to-field Variance: ** The study found significant differences in the maximum stellar masses measured in different CANUCS fields, which could be up to a factor of 31.5 times. This implies that earlier JWST observations (which were based on single-field data) might have been skewed by cosmic variance (natural variations in the number and type of galaxies in different parts of the universe) or sample bias.
3. **Influence of Outliners: ** The authors noted that even one significantly massive galaxy in a small sample can heavily influence the overall conclusions. This is particularly relevant for early JWST observations, which might have had smaller sample sizes.

**Conclusions: ** Based on their findings from the CANUCS data, the authors suggest that the observed double-break sources are not as massive or as prevalent as previously reported by the JWST. As such, there's no need to question the validity of the standard ΛCDM cosmological model based on these findings.

[[2310.03065\] Can supernovae quench star formation in high-$z$ galaxies? (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03065)

 **Aims: **he two z>5 quiescent systems (JADES-GS-z7-01-QU and MACS0417-z5BBG) detected so far show a recent starburst after which SF is suppressed. To clarify whether such quenching is due to supernova (SN) feedback, we have developed a minimal physical model. 

**Methods: ** We derive a condition on the minimum star formation rate, SFRmin, lasting for a time interval Δtb, required to quench SF in a galaxy at redshift z, with gas metallicity Z, and hosted by a halo of mass Mh.

**Results: **

1. The model showed that galaxies with lower redshift, metallicity, and halo mass are more likely to see their star formation quenched.
2. We then apply the condition to JADES-GS-z7-01-QU (z=7.3, M⋆=108.6M⊙) and MACS0417-z5BBG (z=5.2, M⋆=107.6M⊙), and find that SN feedback largely fails to reproduce the observed quenched SF history.  Alternatively, we suggest that SF is rapidly suppressed by radiation-driven dusty outflows sustained by the high specific SFR (43 and 25 Gyr−1, respectively) of the two galaxies. 

**Conclusions: ** Our model provides a simple tool to interpret the SF histories of post-starburst galaxies, and unravel quenching mechanisms from incoming JWST data.

### Oct 9

[[2310.03787\] Unveiling the hidden universe with JWST: The contribution of dust-obscured galaxies to the stellar mass function at $\mathbf{z\sim3-8}$ (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03787)

**Aims:** With the advent of JWST, we can probe the rest-frame optical emission of galaxies at $z>3$ with high sensitivity and spatial resolution, thus moving towards a more complete census of the galaxy population at high redshifts. To this end, the authors present  a sample of 148 massive, dusty galaxies from the JWST/CEERS survey, colour-selected using solely JWST bands. 

**Methods: **  With deep JWST/NIRCam data from 1.15$\rm \mu m$to 4.44$\rm \mu m$ and ancillary HST/ACS and WFC3 data, we determine the physical properties of our sample using spectral energy distribution fitting with $\texttt{BAGPIPES}$. We demonstrate that our selection method efficiently identifies massive (⟨$\rm logM⋆/M⊙$⟩∼10) and dusty (⟨$\rm A_{V}$⟩∼2.7 mag) sources, with a majority at z>3 and predominantly lying on the galaxy main-sequence. 

**Results: ** The main results of this work are the stellar mass functions (SMF) of red, optically-faint galaxies from redshifts between 3<z<8: 

1. These galaxies make up a significant fraction of the pre-JWST total SMF at 3<z<4, and dominate the high-mass end of the pre-JWST SMF at 4<z<6 and 6<z<8, suggesting that our census of the galaxy population needs amendment at these epochs.

**Conclusions: **  While larger areas need to be surveyed in the future, our results suggest already that the integrated stellar mass density at $\rm logM⋆/M⊙ >$9.25 may have been underestimated by ∼20-25% at z∼3−6, and ∼110% at z∼6−8.

[[2310.03796\] Searching for [CII] Emission from the First Sample of $z\sim 6$ OI Absorption-Associated Galaxies with ALMA (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.03796)

**Aims: ** To statistically analyze [C ii] emissions and dust continuum observations from six fields with strong O I absorbers at the tail-end of the reionization epoch using the ALMA.

**Results: ** 

1. **[C ii] Emitters**: Out of the six fields, one [C ii] emitter was found that's associated with an OI absorber. In regions where O I-absorbers didn't show [C ii] emitters, none surpassed the study's detection limit.
2. **Detection Threshold**: The average upper limit for detecting [C ii] emissions was pegged at < 0.06 Jy km s−1. This translates to a [C ii] luminosity of less than 5.8 × 10^7 L⊙ and a star formation rate based on [C ii] of less than 5.5 M⊙ per year.
3. **Simulations**: Their models indicate that only a minuscule fraction of [C ii] emitters around O I absorbers have a star formation rate close to the detection limit set in this study.
4. **Role of Massive Galaxies**: Despite detecting [C ii] emitters in just one of the six fields, the data suggests that massive galaxies have had a significant hand in metal enrichment in the universe. Furthermore, the study also flagged 14 potential galaxy candidates that might be pushing metals across broader distances at greater velocities.

**Conclusions: ** If these potential galaxy candidates are verified in subsequent research, it would necessitate a re-evaluation, from a theoretical standpoint, of the mechanisms propelling metals across larger expanses at higher speeds.

[[2310.04498\] UV-continuum $β$ slopes of individual $z \sim 2-6$ clumps and their evolution (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.04498)

- **Background: **  the investigation of the physical properties of galactic substructures and individual clumps hosted by high-𝑧 galax- ies down to the smallest scales gives unique hints to study galaxy evolution
- **Aims: ** The aim of this study is to compare the 𝛽 values of individual clumps with those measured on the entire galaxy, to investigate possible physical differences between these regions and their hosts.
- **Methods: ** We study the ultraviolet (UV) continuum 𝛽 slope of a sample of 166 clumps, individual star-forming regions observed in high redshift galaxies. They are hosted by 67 galaxies with redshift between 2 and 6.2, strongly lensed by the Hubble Frontier Fields cluster of galaxies MACS J0416.1−2403.
- **Results: **

1. We found a median value of 𝛽 ∼ −2.4, lower than that of integrated galaxies. This result confirms that clumps are sites of intense star formation, populated by young, massive stars, whose spectrum strongly emits in the UV.  
2. This is also consistent with the assumption that the dust extinction at the location of the clumps is lower than the average extinction of the galaxy, or that clumps have a different IMF or SFH.
3. We made use of the correlations, discovered for high-redshift galaxies, of the β value with those of redshift and UV magnitude, MUV, finding that clumps follow the same relations, extended to much fainter magnitudes (MUV<−13). We also find evidence of eight clumps with extremely blue (β≲−2.7) slopes, which could be the signpost of low-metallicity stars and constrain the emissivity of ionizing photons at high redshift.

### Oct 11

[[2310.06781\] Quantifying the Effects of Known Unknowns on Inferred High-redshift Galaxy Properties: Burstiness, the IMF, and Nebular Physics (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06781)

**Aims: ** With the James Webb Space Telescope, modeling stellar populations is entering uncharted domains, especially at high-redshifts. To determine and quantify uncertainties in Spectral Energy Distribution (SED) modeling.

**Methods: ** Used the **Prospector** Bayesian framework to infer galaxy redshifts and stellar populations properties. The study employed a sample with $z_{phot} > 9$ and evaluate systematic shifts arising from various model choices on inferred properties like stellar mass, star-forming rate, and age.

**Results:** 

1.  **IMF**: The choice of IMF has the most significant impact.  Systematic uncertainties can reach up to 1 dex for stellar mass and SFR, 2-5 times larger than the traditionally reported uncertainties.
2. **SFH**: Highly variable SFHs greatly affect the inferred SFH, with systematics of approximately 0.8 dex in SFR and 0.3 dex in average age.
3. **Nebular emission models**: Using a flexible nebular emission model can cause a systematic increase in mass of around 0.2 dex, which is similar to the traditionally reported uncertainty.

**Conclusions:** The study underscores the importance of understanding and accounting for the myriad of systematic uncertainties in SED modeling.

[[2310.06614\] Stellar and AGN Feedback Probed with Outflows in JWST Galaxies at z=3-9: Implications of Frequent Nearly-Spherical Galactic Fountains (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06614)

**Aims:** The authors aim to study outflows in galaxies at redshifts between z=3-9.

**Methods: ** The author take advantage of the JWST NIRSpec and NIRCam WFSS data taken by the ERO, CEERS, FRESCO, GLASS, and JADES programs. They identified 130 galaxies with $\rm -22 < M_{UV}<-16$ at $z=3-9$.

**Results: ** 

1. **Properties of galaxies:** Out of 130 galaxies studied, 30 show broad components in the emission lines of Hα and [OIII], suggesting the presence of ionized outflows. However, they do not show excesses from the star-formation main sequence. Among the galaxies with outflows, four are Type 1 AGN, showing particularly broad Hα emission lines.
2. **Properties of outflow: ** The velocities of the outflow broad lines range from ~80-500 km/s. These velocities, as a function of star-formation rate, are comparable to or even higher than those of galaxies at z~1. The outflow velocities from AGN are not significantly different from others. In addition, the outflow velocities observed are typically not high enough to escape their respective galactic potentials, suggesting a "fountain-type" mechanism for the outflows and the estimated mass loading factors (η) range between 0.1-1, similar to outflows at z~1.
3. **Frequency & Characteristics: ** 30% of galaxies (with high-resolution data) show outflows. This suggests a wide opening angle of more than 45 degrees and a duty-cycle higher than 30%. This paints a picture of more regular and spherical outflows in high-z galaxies.

**Conclusion: ** High-redshift galaxies exhibit outflows with characteristics that are similar to or even more intense than those at lower redshifts. The data points toward the presence of more frequent and more spherical outflows in these early galaxies.

[[2310.06222\] Evolved galaxies in high-density environments across $2.0\leq z<4.2$ using the ZFOURGE survey (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06222)

**Aims: ** Investigate the influence of the environment on galaxy evolution at high redshifts using the FourStar Galaxy Evolution (ZFOURGE) survey.

**Methods: ** The study focuses on galaxies from the COSMOS legacy field with log(M∗/M⊙)≥9.5 and utilize a seventh nearest neighbour density estimator to categorize galaxies into low, intermediate, and high-density environments.

**Results:** 

1. **High Density Environment Candidates**: New high-density environment candidates were identified in the redshift ranges 2.0≤z<2.4 and 3.1≤z<4.2.
2. At $2<z<2.4$, the high density environments are the most significant regions, which consist of elevated quiescent fractions,  log(M∗/M⊙)≥10.2 massive galaxies and suppressed star formation activity. At $3.1<z<4.2$, we find that high density regions consist of elevated stellar masses but require more complete samples of quiescent and sSFR data to study the effects of environment in more detail at these higher redshifts

**Conclusions:** Overall, our results suggest that well-evolved, passive galaxies are already in place in high density environments at z∼2.4, and that the Butcher-Oemler effect and SFR-density relation may not reverse towards higher redshifts as previously thought.

### Oct 12

[[2310.07285\] A spectroscopic survey of Ly$α$ emitters and Ly$α$ luminosity function at Redshifts 3.7 and 4.8 (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.07285)

**Aims:** The LyA LF describes the number density of LAEs as a function of LyA luminosity, and is thus a basic statistical property of LAEs. The study aims to calculate the LyA LF at z~3.7 and z~4.8 based on a sample of spectroscopically confirmed LAEs.

**Methods:** The LAEs are selected using the narrowband technique based on the combination of deep narrowband and broadband imaging data in two deep fields, and then spectroscopically confirmed with the MMT multi-fiber spectrograph Hectospec. The sample consists of 71 LAEs at z ∼ 3.7 and 69 LAEs at z ∼ 4.8 over ∼ 1.5 deg2 , making it one of the largest spectroscopically confirmed sample of LAEs at the two redshifts.

**Results:** 

1. Their Lyα luminosities are measured using the secure redshifts and deep photometric data, and span a range of ~ $10^{42.5}-10^{43.6}$ erg/s. So these LAEs represent the most luminous galaxies at the redshifts in terms of Lyα luminosity.
2. We find that our Lyα LFs are roughly consistent (within a factor of 2 − 3) with previous measurements at similar redshifts that were derived from either photometric samples or spectroscopic samples.

**Conclusions:** We find that the LyA LF decrease mildly from z~3.1to z~5.7 by comparing with previous studies in different redshifts. This support the previous claim of the slow LF evolution between z ∼ 2 and z ∼ 6. At z > 5.7, the LF declines rapidly towards higher redshift, partly due to the effect of cosmic reionization.

[[2310.07283\] Lyman Continuum Emission from Spectroscopically Confirmed Ly$α$ Emitters at $z\sim3.1$ (arxi1v.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.07283)

**Aims**: The study focus on the Lyman continuum emission in a sample of ~ 150 Lyman alpha emitters in SXDS field. These galaxies were previously selected using the narrowband technique and spectroscopically confirmed with EW(LyA) > 45 $\rm \AA$.

**Methods:** The LyC emission of these galaxies are probed by the deep UV images using a custom intermediate-band filter U~J~ that covers a wavelength of 3330~3650 $\rm \AA$, corresponding to 810~890 $\rm \AA$.

**Results:** 

1. They detect 5 individual LyC galaxy candidates in the UJ band, and their escape fractions (fesc) of LyC photons are roughly between 40% and 80%. In addition, they do not find the f~esc~ value of 5 LyC leakers apparently correlated with other galaxy properties such as Lyα luminosity and EW, UV luminosity and slope, and star-formation rate (SFR). 
2. For the remaining LAEs that are not detected in UJ, we stack their UJ-band images and constrain their average fesc. The upper limit of the average fesc value is about 16%, consistent with the results in the literature.

**Conclusion:** Compared with the non-LyC LAEs, the LyC LAEs tend to have higher Lyα luminosities, Lyα EWs, and SFRs, but their UV continuum slopes are similar to those of other galaxies.

[[2310.06887\] FRESCO: An extended, massive, rapidly rotating galaxy at z=5.3 (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.06887)

**Aims:** With the remarkable sensitivity and resolution of JWST in the infrared, measuring rest-optical kinematics of galaxies at z>5 has become possible for the first time.

**Methods:** This study pilots a new method for measuring galaxy dynamics for highly multiplexed, unbiased samples by combining FRESCO NIRCam grism spectroscopy and JADES medium-band imaging. Here we present one of the first JWST kinematic measurements for a galaxy at z>5.

**Results:** 

1. We find a significant velocity gradient, which, if interpreted as rotation yields Vrot=240±50km/s and we hence refer to this galaxy as Twister-z5.  With a rest-frame optical effective radius of re=2.25kpc, the high rotation velocity in this galaxy is not due to a compact size as may be expected in the early universe but rather a high total mass, log(Mdyn/M⊙)=11.0±0.2. This is a factor of roughly 4x higher than the stellar mass within the effective radius. 
2. The study suggests that Twister-z5 has a unique structure where star formation is suppressed at the center, indicating a possible bulge surrounded by a star-forming disk. This is indicative of an "inside-out" growth, where the bulge forms first, followed by the disk.

**Conclusions:** Large, rapidly rotating disks have been observed in galaxies up to a redshift of about 2, but finding such a galaxy at a redshift greater than 5, only 1 billion years after the Big Bang, is unusual. This galaxy exhibits a structure and maturity unexpected at this point in cosmic time, suggesting the possibility of rapid early galaxy maturation and providing new insights into galactic evolution in the early universe.

### Oct 13

[[2310.08441\] Ly-alpha emission in low-redshift most metal-deficient compact star-forming galaxies (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08441)

**Aims:** They aim to study the properties of Lyman-alpha emission in these extremely metal-deficient objects.

**Methods:** 

1. They used the COS/HST to observe nine most metal-deficient compact star-forming galaxies with oxygen abundances 12+log(O/H)=6.97-7.23 and stellar masses M*<10^8 Msun in a redshift range of 0.02811-0.13320.
2. After a examination of various relations between the Ly-alpha escape fraction fesc(Ly-alpha) and other characteristics - such as absolute UV magnitude, oxygen abundance, O32 ratio, stellar mass, Lyman-alpha luminosity and equivalent width EW(Ly-alpha), ionizing photon production efficiency and velocity separation Vsep between the two peaks of the Ly-alpha profile - of a large sample of LAEs, including our lowest-metallicity galaxies and other objects from the literature.

**Results:**

1. They find these nine objects are all LAEs. 
2. We find a relatively tight correlation between fesc(Ly-alpha) and two characteristics, EW(Ly-alpha) and Vsep, whereas no correlation is found between fesc(Ly-alpha) and the oxygen abundance. We also find a relatively tight relation between the Ly-alpha and LyC escape fractions. 

**Conclusions:**

1. We propose to use the latter relation to estimate indirectly the escaping ionizing radiation in LAEs, when direct measurements of LyC emission are not possible.
2. We show that the global properties of low-z LAEs are very similar to those of z>6 galaxies. They are thus ideal local proxies for studying physical processes during the epoch of reionization of the Universe.

[[2310.08525\] An enhanced abundance of bright galaxies in protocluster candidates at z~3-5 (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.08525)

**Aims:** The authors present a protocluster search covering z~3 to z~5 based on the combination of the Hyper Suprime Cam Subaru Strategic Programme and the CFHT Large Area U-band Deep Survey.

**Methods:** We identify about 30 protocluster candidates per unit redshift over the ∼ 25 deg2 area of the Deep/Ultra-Deep layer.  Protocluster candidates are selected as regions with a significantly enhanced surface density of dropout galaxies.

**Results:**  With this large sample, we characterise the properties of their individual member galaxies:

1. **Number density in protocluster** Rest-frame UV bright galaxies are over abundant in protocluster candidates comparing to that of coeval field galaxies. This trend seen across the full redshift range studied. The evidence for their spatial distribution within protocluster candidates to be distinct from their fainter counterparts is not found.
2. **Rest-frame UV color** The UV colour to be compatible from that of field galaxies with the same brightness.
3. **Explanations** Cosmological simulations predict this bright-end excess, with the main cause being a richer population of massive galaxies, with only a minor contribution from an enhancement in star formation activity (and therefore UV emission) at fixed mass. 𝑈-to-𝐾 SED modelling of our observed samples supports this interpretation.

**Conclusions:**

This environmental differentiation in number counts is already in place at 𝑧 ∼ 5, with no significant redshift dependence over the range in lookback times probed. These observational results and model predictions suggest that the cosmic clock is ahead in high-density environments.

[[2310.07766\] CEERS: 7.7 μm PAH Star Formation Rate Calibration with JWST MIRI (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.07766)

**Aims:** The study tests the relationship between UV-derived star formation rates (SFRs) and the 7.7 µm polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) luminosities from the integrated emission of galaxies at z ∼ 0 − 2.

**Methods:** They utilize multi-band photometry covering 0.2 – 160 µm from HST, CFHT, JWST, Spitzer, and Herschel for galaxies in the Cosmic Evolution Early Release Science (CEERS) Survey. We perform spectral energy distribution (SED) modeling of these data to measure dust-corrected far-UV (FUV) luminosities, LFUV, and UV-derived SFRs. We then fit SED models to the JWST/MIRI 7.7 – 21 µm CEERS data to derive rest-frame 7.7 µm luminosities, L770, using the average flux density in the rest-frame MIRI F770W bandpass.

**Results**:

1. We observe a correlation between L770 and LFUV, where logL770 ∝ (1.27±0.04)logLFUV. L770 diverges from this relation for galaxies at lower metallicities, lower dust obscuration, and for galaxies dominated by evolved stellar populations.
2. **SFR relation**  The single wavelength SFR calibration for L~770~ has a  a scatter from model estimated SFRs (σ∆SFR) of 0.24 dex, while the muti-wavelength calibration for the linear-combination of the observed FUV luminosity (uncorrected for dust) and the rest-frame 7.7 µm luminosity has a scatter of σ∆SFR=0.21 dex.
3. The relatively small decrease in σ suggests this is near the systematic accuracy of the total SFRs using either calibration.

**Conclusions:**

These results demonstrate that the rest-frame 7.7 µm emission constrained by JWST/MIRI is a tracer of the SFR for distant galaxies to this accuracy, provided the galaxies are dominated by star-formation with moderate-to-high levels of attenuation and metallicity.

### Oct 17

[[2310.09327\] MAGNIF: A Tentative Lensed Rotating Disk at $z=8.34$ detected by JWST NIRCam WFSS with Dynamical Forward Modeling (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.09327)

**Aims**: The authors report a galaxy MACS0416-Y3 as a tentative rotating disk at $z = 8.4$ behind lensing cluster MACJ0416.1--2403.

**Methods**: The galaxy is detect though [O III] emission in JWST NIRCam/WFSS using a forward modeling method for JWST NIRCam data. The discovery is made based on the data from MAGNIF (a cycle 2 program).

**Results**: 

1. **Rotation disk** The [O III]$\lambda5007$ emission line morphology in grism data show velocity offsets compared to the F480M direct imaging, suggestive rotation. Assuming a geometrically thin disk model, we constrain the rotation velocity of $v_{rot} = 58 ^{+53}_{-35}\ \rm{km/s}$ via forward modeling of the two-dimensional (2D) spectrum. The authors obtain the kinematic ratio of $v_{rot}/ \sigma_{v} = 1.6^{+1.9}_{-0.9}$, where $\sigma_{v}$ is the velocity dispersion, in line with a quasi-stable disk. 
2. **Dynamical mass** Based on the rotation, the dynamical mass is estimated to be log(M~dyn~/M~sun~) = $8.4_{-0.7}^{+0.5}$.

**Conclusions:** If the rotation confirmed, our discovery suggests that rotating gaseous disks may have already existed within 600 million years after Big Bang.

[[2310.09703\] New technique to select recent fast-quenching galaxies at $z\sim2$ using the optical colors (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.09703)

**Background:** Many massive quiescent galaxies have been discovered at z>2 thanks to multi-wavelength deep and wide surveys, however, substantial deep near-infrared spectroscopic observations are needed to constrain their star-formation histories statistically. 

**Aims**: The authors present a new technique to select quiescent galaxies with a short quenching timescale ($<0.1$ Gyr) at $z \sim 2$ photometrically.

**Methods**: 

1. They foucs on a spectral break at $\sim$ 1600 $\rm \AA$ that appears for such fast-quenching galaxies ~ 1 Gyr after quenching when early A-type stars go out, but late A-type stars still live. This spectral break at $z∼2$ is similar to a Lyman break at $z∼4$. 

2. They construct a set of color criteria for $z\sim 2$ fast quenching galaxies on $g-r$ v.s. $r-i$ and $i-J$ v.s. $J-H$ or $i-[3.6]$ v.s. $[3.6]-[4.5]$  color diagrams, which are available with the existing and/or future wide imaging surveys, by simulating various model galaxy spectra and test their robustnesses using the COSMOS2020 catalog.

**Results:**  Galaxies with photometric and/or spectroscopic redshifts z∼2 and low specific star formation rates are successfully selected using these colors. 

**Conclusions:** The number density of these fast-quenching galaxy candidates at $z∼2$ suggests that massive galaxies not so far above the star-formation main sequence at $z=3−4$ should be their progenitors.

[[2310.09790\] A Lens Finder Map to check claimed High-z Galaxies behind SMACS J0723.3-7327 (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.09790)

**Aims:** Previous study have identified a bunch of high-z galaxy candidates behind the SMACS J0723.3-7327 and some have claimed the redshifts of them up to $z \simeq 20$.

**Methods:** We present a lens model for SMACS J0723.3-7327 anchored on five spectroscopically-confirmed systems at 1.38≤z≤2.21 that are multiply lensed, along with twelve other systems with proposed image counterparts sharing common colours, spectral energy distributions, and morphological features, but having unknown redshifts. 

**Results:**

1. **Geometrically-determined redshifts** Constrained only by their image positions and, where available, redshifts, our lens model correctly reproduces the positions and correctly predicts the morphologies and relative brightnesses of all these image counterparts, as well as providing geometrically-determined redshifts spanning $1.4 \lesssim z \lesssim 6.7$ for the twelve candidate multiply-lensed galaxies lacking spectroscopic measurements.
2. **Lens finder map** From this lens model, we create a lens finder map that defines regions over which galaxies beyond a certain redshift are predicted to be multiply lensed.
3. **Redshift constrain** Applying this map to three galaxies claimed to be at 10≲z≲20, we find no image counterparts at locations (with an uncertainty of ∼0.′′5) where they ought to be sufficiently magnified to be detectable - suggesting instead that these galaxies lie at $z \lesssim 1.7-3.2$.

**Conclusions:**  In lieu of spectroscopy, the creation of reliable lens finder maps for cluster fields are urgently needed to test and constrain redshifts inferred from photometry for a rapidly increasing number of candidate high-z galaxies found with the JWST.

[[2310.11503\] How many stars form in galaxy mergers? (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.11503)

**Aims:** The study aims to understand the difference in stellar ages between merged galaxies (post-coalescence mergers) and a control group of galaxies that haven’t merged. The galaxies are matched in terms of stellar mass, environmental density, and redshift.

**Methods:**

- **Sample** We use a pure sample of 445 post-coalescence mergers from the recent visually-confirmed post-coalescence merger sample and find that post-coalescence mergers are on average younger than control galaxies for 10<log(M⋆/M⊙)<11. 
- **Model**  We forward model this difference using parametric star formation histories, accounting for the pre-coalescence inspiral phase of enhanced star formation using close pair data, and a final additive burst of star formation at coalescence.

**Results**

- **Burst fraction** We find a best-fitting stellar mass burst fraction of f~burst=~ΔM~⋆~/M~⋆,merger~=0.18±0.02 for 10<log(M⋆/M⊙)<11 galaxies, with no evidence of a trend in stellar mass. The modeled burst fraction is robust to choice of parametric star formation history, as well as differences in burst duration.  We find a best-fitting stellar mass burst fraction of fburst=ΔM⋆/M⋆,merger=0.18±0.02 for 10<log(M⋆/M⊙)<11 galaxies, with no evidence of a trend in stellar mass. The modeled burst fraction is robust to choice of parametric star formation history, as well as differences in burst duration. 
- **Burst duration** We find a burst duration increasing with stellar mass, from 120−250 Myr based on LIRG star formation rates
- **Cold gas** A comparison to published cold gas measurements indicates there is enough molecular gas available in very close pairs to fuel the burst. Additionally, given our stellar mass burst estimate, the predicted cold gas fraction remaining after the burst is consistent with observed post-coalescence mergers.

[[2310.12200\] LATIS: The Stellar Mass-Metallicity Relation of Star-forming Galaxies at $z\sim 2.5$ (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12200)

- **Aims:** The author present the stellar mass - stellar metallicity relation for 3491 star-forming galaxies at $2 \lesssim z \lesssim 3$ using rest-frame far-UV spectra from the LATIS.
- **Methods:** They fit the stellar population synthesis models from the BPASS to medium resolution and high S/N composite spectra of galaxies in bins of stellar mass to determine their stellar metallicity, primarily tracing Fe/H.
- **Results:** 
  1. A strong correlation between stellar mass and stellar metallicity are found, which is stellar metallicity monotonically increasing with stellar mass at low masses and flattening at high masses
  2. The authors compare the stellar metallicity measurements with the gas-phase oxygen abundance of galaxies at similar redshift and estimate the average [$\alpha$/Fe] $\sim 0.6$, meaning that the gas-phase oxygen abundance of galaxies have not yet undergone significant iron enrichment through Type Ia SN.
  3. They used an analytic chemical evolution model to constrain the mass loading parameter of galactic winds as function of stellar mass and find that as the stellar mass increases, the mass loading parameter decreases, while this parameter then flattens or reaches a turning point at around $M_{*} \sim 10^{10.5} M_{\odot}$. This result might signal the onset of black-hole-driven outflows at $z\sim 2.5$

[[2310.12222\] Subaru High-$z$ Exploration of Low-luminosity Quasars (SHELLQs). XVII. Black Hole Mass Distribution at $z \sim 6$ Estimated via Spectral Comparison with Low-$z$ Quasars (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12222)

- **Aims:**  The study report the distribution of black hole masses and Eddingont ratios estimated for a sample of 131 low luminosity quasars at $5.6<z<7.0$.
- **Methods**:
  - **Data**  Our work is based on Subaru High-z Exploration of Low-Luminosity Quasars (SHELLQs) project, which has constructed a low luminosity quasar sample down to M1450 ∼ −21 mag. The discovery spectra of these quasars are limited to the rest-frame wavelengths of ∼ 1200 – 1400 Å, which contains no emission lines that can be used as BH mass estimators.
  - **Method** we made use of low-z counterpart spectra from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, which are spectrally matched to the high-z spectra in overlapping wavelengths.  They then combined the C iv emission line widths of the counterparts with the continuum luminosity from the SHELLQs data to estimate BH masses.

- **Results** The resulting BH mass has a range of $\sim 10^{7-10} M_{\odot}$, with most of quasars having BH masses $\sim 10^{8} M_{\odot}$ with sub-Eddington accretion. The present study provides not only a new insight into normal quasars in the reionization epoch, but also a new promising way to estimate BH masses of high-z quasars without near-infrared spectroscopy.

[[2310.12330\] AGN Selection and Demographics: A New Age with JWST/MIRI (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12330)

- **Aims:** The authors aims to construct a complete AGN sample at high-z Universe based on the JWST data (SMILES)
- **Methods:** Based on comprehensive SED analysis of 3273 MIRI-selected sources, the authors construct a AGN candidate sample containing 217 candidates over 34 arcimin sq.  The sample includes 111 AGN in normal massive galaxies at $z \sim 0-4$, an extended sample of 86 AGN in low-mass galaxies ($M_{*} < 10^{9.5}M_{\odot}$), and a high z sample of 20 AGN at $z \sim 4-8.4$.
- **Results:** In general, most of their candidates are newly reported, reaching a fraction of 80$\%$. In high mass sample, where the previous AGN search is believed to be thorough, there are still 34% candidates are newly discovered. By combining our results with the efforts at other wavelengths, we build the most complete AGN sample to date and examine the relative performance of different selection techniques. 
- **Conclusions**  They find the obscured AGN fraction increases from L~AGN,bol~$\sim 10^{10} L_{\odot}$ to $10^{11} L_{\odot}$ and then drops towards higher luminosity. Additionally, the obscured AGN fraction gradually increases from z∼0 to z∼4 with most high-z AGNs obscured. 

[[2310.12340\] The JADES Origins Field: A New JWST Deep Field in the JADES Second NIRCam Data Release (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.12340)

- **Aims:** The initial data release of the JADES Origins Field (JOF), which will soon be the deepest imaging field yet observed with JWST.
- **The Field:** The location of this field is about 8 arcmin south-west of the HUDF.
- **Datasets** 
  1. **Cycle 1**  The data is initially observed as a parallel field of HUDF of JADES. 
  2. **Cycle 2** The imaging will be greatly extended in Cycle 2 program 3215, which will observe the JOF for 5 days in six medium-band filter (This program will also include the 104 hours parallel NIRSpec spectroscopy on the HUDF). 
  3. **Cycle 3** The observations from program 4540 will add 20 hours of NIRCam slitless spectroscopy to the JOF.

With these three campaigns, the JOF will be observed for 380 open-shutter hours with NIRCam using 15 imaging filters and 2 grism bandpasses. Further, parts of the JOF have deep 43 hour MIRI observations in F770W. 

- **Conclusions** Taken together, the JOF will soon be one of the most compelling deep fields available with JWST and a powerful window into the early Universe. This paper presents the second data release from JADES, featuring the imaging and catalogs from the year 1 JOF observations.

### Oct 24

[[2310.13745\] NGDEEP Epoch 1: Spatially Resolved H$α$ Observations of Disk and Bulge Growth in Star-Forming Galaxies at $z \sim$ 0.6-2.2 from JWST NIRISS Slitless Spectroscopy (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.13745)

- **Aims:** The study present the H-alpha equivalent width maps of 19 galaxies at $0.6<z<2.2$ in the Hubble Ultra Deep Field (HUDF) derived from NIRISS survey.
- **Methods:** 
  - **Sample** These galaxies are the typical star-forming galaxies at these redshifts, which mostly lie on the star-formation main sequence with a stellar mass range $10^{9}-10^{11} M_{\odot}$.
  - **Method** Leveraging deep HST and JWST broadband images, they perform spatially-resolved fitting of the SEDS for these galaxies and construct sSFR and stellar-mass-weighted age maps.

- **Results:**
  -  The pixel-to-pixel EW(Hα) increases with increasing sSFR and with decreasing age, with the average trend slightly different from the relations derived from integrated fluxes of galaxies from the literature.
  - Quantifying the radial profiles of EW(Hα), sSFR, and age, the majority (84%) of galaxies show positive EW(Hα) gradients, positive sSFR gradients, and negative age gradients, in line with the the inside-out quenching scenario.  A few galaxies (16%) show inverse (and flat) trends possibly due to merging or starbursts.
  - Comparing the distributions of EW(Hα) and sSFR to the star formation history models as a function of galactocentric radius, the central region of galaxies (e.g., their bulges) have experienced, at least one, rapid star-formation episodes, which leads to the formation of bulge, while their outer regions (e.g., disks) grow in a more steady-state.

### Oct 25

[[2310.15967\] Comparing emission- and absorption-based gas-phase metallicities in GRB host galaxies at $z=2-4$ using JWST (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.15967)

- **Aims:** The study aims to correlate the metallicity observed through two different methods, which are emission lines from SF regions in galaxies and absorption lines from the afterglow spectra of long GRBs.
- **Methods:** Using JWST, they investigate the relation between the metallicity of the neutral gas measured with GRB afterglow absorptions lines to the emission line metallicity of the star-forming regions of the GRB host galaxies. An initial sample of 7 GRB host galaxies at redshifts $z=2-4$ is used.
- **Results:** A strong correlation between metallicity measured through absorption and emission lines was found when using a specific metallicity diagnostic method, the Laseter et al. (2023) $R^{*}$ diagnostic. However, the correlation was less clear when other diagnostic methods, such as R23 and R3, were used.
- **Conclusions:** Further confirmation is necessary, possibly through the detection of temperature-sensitive auroral lines, to solidify the relationship between the absorption and emission line metallicities.

[[2310.15284\] Efficient survey design for finding high-redshift galaxies with JWST (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.15284)

**Aims:** Several large JWST blank field did not report the first galaxies expected to form at $15<z<20$. So the authors explore the use of gravitationally lensed cluster fields, that have historically been the most effective discovery tool with HST.

**Methods:** The study analyzes how effective massive galaxy clusters are in discovering galaxies at redshifts greater than 15 compared to blank field surveys such as JADES and CEERS. Fields with massive foreground galaxy clusters that provide high magnification factors are considered, focusing on those that fit within a single JWST NIRCam module.

**Results and conclusions:** Fields with specifically chosen massive galaxy clusters offer higher probabilities of probing galaxies in the 15 ≤ z ≤ 20 range and discovering the highest redshift galaxies possible with the JWST. Using multiple massive clusters with shallower survey depths is found to be a more time-efficient method for exploring galaxies at z > 15.

**Remark:** 主要考虑了三个条件，首先lensing field需要尽可能地被单个NIRSpec模块地视场覆盖，同时能够前景地放大率需要足够地大，另外后景的多次像需要在尽可能地在一个模块地视场里

[[2310.15232\] Galaxies Going Bananas: Inferring the 3D Geometry of High-Redshift Galaxies with JWST-CEERS (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.15232)

- **Aims:** The authors presents a method to measure the 3D geometry of high-redshift galaxies.
- **Methods:** The authors build a differentiable Bayesian model and use Hamiltonian MC to efficiently and robustly infer the 3D shapes of SFGs in JWST-CEERS observations with $\rm logM_{*}/M_{\odot} =  9.0-10.5 $ at $z=0.5-8.0$. 
- **Results & conclusions:** TBD.

### Oct 26

[[2310.16085\] Blowing out the Candle: How to Quench Galaxies at High Redshift -- an Ensemble of Rapid Starbursts, AGN Feedback and Environment (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.16085)

**Aims:** JWST and ALMA have observed a population of extremely massive quiescent galaxies at z>3, the authors try to explain the observations by simulations.

**Methods:** They used the cosmological simulation suite Magneticum Pathfinder and successfully reproduce the number densities and stellar mass. They found 36 quenched galaxies of stellar mass larger thant 3e10 Msun at z=3.42.

**Results:** 

- **Reason of quenched** These galaxies are quenched though a rapid star-forming and subsequent AGN feedback, caused by a particularly isotropic collapse of surrounding gas, occurring on timescales of around 200Myr or shorter. 
- **The properties of quiescent galaxies** The stellar components are kinematically fast rotating and alpha-enhanced and exhibiting a steeper metallicity and flatter age gradient compared to galaxies of similar stellar mass. The gas components has been metal enriched and ejected.
- **Predictors of quenching** For predicting quick quenching (in less than 500 million years), the ratio of black hole mass to stellar mass and the rate of star formation are the best indicators. For periods longer than a billion years, environmental factors and previous rates of star formation become the primary indicators of a galaxy’s likelihood to quench star formation.

- **Conclusions:**  At high redshifts the consumption of old and lack of new gas are more relevant for long-term prevention of star-formation than the presence of a massive AGN. Such early quenched galaxies are likely to display a significant level of element enhancement (alpha-enhancement).

[[2310.16089\] Relight the Candle: What happens to High Redshift Massive Quenched Galaxies (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.16089)

- **Aims:** Followed by the 2310.16085, they present the evolution stages of these quenched galaxies towards low redshifts.
- **Methods:** Same as the previous study, the hydrodynamical cosmological simulation suite is used. The reproduced number densities is similar to what we observed and the properties of these galaxies are matched to those determined by JWST.
- **Results and Conclusions:** 
  - **The evolutions stages** Following these quenched galaxies at z=3.4 forward in time, we find 20% to be accreted onto a more massive structure by z=2. For the remaining 80%, about 30% rejuvenate up to z=2, another 30% stay quenched, and the remaining 40% rejuvenated on a very low level of star formation. Stars formed through rejuvenation are mostly formed on the outer regions of the galaxies, not in the centres.
  - **DH properties** The massive quenched galaxies do not resied in the most massive nodes of cosmic web, but rather live in side-node of approximately Milky-Way halo mass. Even at z=0, only about 10% end up in small-mass galaxy clusters, while most of the quenched galaxies at z=3.4 end up in group-mass halos, with about 20% actually not even reaching 1e13Msun in halo mass.

[[2310.16086\] Formation of quenched massive galaxies in FIRE cosmological zoom-in simulations with multi-channel AGN feedback (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.16086)

- **Aims:** The AGN feedback is a important physical process during the galaxy evolutions. In recent years, various AGN feedback have been implemented as subgrid models in galaxy formation simulations, however, most implementations have involved simplified prescriptions of ISM. The paper present a new zoom-in simulations combining detailed stellar and ISM physics with multi-channel AGN feedback including radiative feedback, mechanical outflows, and in some simulations, cosmic rays. 
- **Methods:** We perform a zoom-in simulation with AGN feedback evolved to $z \sim 0$ and examine a set of galaxies with halos in  the mass range $10^{12}-10^{13}$ Msun.
- **Results and conclusions:** 
  - The simulations successfully reproduce observed properties and relations in massive galaxies, such as the stellar mass-halo mass relation and the black hole mass-velocity dispersion (MBH-σ) relation.
  - The simulations also successfully predict the quenching star-forming activity and elliptical morphologies in many massive galaxies when AGN feedback included.
  - Without the AGN feedback, the simulations do not match observations well. The galaxies appear too massive, have overly high star-formation rates, are much more compact, and show discrepancies in their velocity dispersions.
  - Despite the successes, holding the feedback parameters constant across the mass range did not consistently produce realistic galaxies, which suggest  that the model could benefit from further refinement.,

[[2310.16651\] Dwarf galaxies show little ISM evolution from $z\sim1$ to $z\sim0$: a spectroscopic study of metallicity, star formation, and electron density (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.16651)

- **Aims:** The study present gas-metallicity measurements for ELGs at $0.3<z<0.85$ and explore the dependence of the metallicity on the stellar mass and star-forming properties.
- **Methods:** Metallicity measurements are based on the emission line measurements in very deep Keck/DEIMOS spectra taken primarily from the HALO7D survey. In this study, the metallicities are determined using three calibrations for the over sample, as well as with the faint [Ne III]3869 and [O III]4363 emission lines for 112 and 17 galaxies.
- **Results:** 
  - We construct mass-metallicity relations (MZR) for each calibration method, finding MZRs consistent with other strong-line results at comparable redshift, as well as with z∼0 galaxies.
  - There is an increase in intrinsic scatter in the MZR at lower stellar masses.
  - A correlation was found between increased scatter in the MZR and higher specific star formation rates (sSFR). Furthermore, a fundamental metallicity relation was also found to be influenced slightly by the Star Formation Rate (SFR), with a coefficient of α=0.21.
  - Using the [O II]λλ3727,3729 doublet flux ratios, gas electron densities were measured, for galaxies with z<1, electron densities were low, consistent with those at z≈0, but higher densities were measured for z>1.
- **Conclusions:** These results all suggest that there is little evolution in star-forming interstellar medium conditions from z∼1 to z=0, confirmed with a more complete sample of low-mass galaxies than has previously been available in this redshift range.

### Oct 31

[[2310.18817\] The Low-redshift Lyman Continuum Survey: Radio continuum properties of low-$z$ Lyman continuum emitters (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18817)

- **Aims:** The study presents the radio continuum (RC) observations of a sample of LyC leakers found by LzLCS. They aim to study the RC properties of LzLCS sources and their relations between fesc. The RC could provide (1) unique insights into the role of supernova feedback, cosmic-rays (CRs) and magnetic fields from its non-thermal emission component; (2) a tracer to their SFRs.
- **Methods:** They used VLA to observe the RC of LyC leakers. They performed C (4-8 GHz) and S (2-4 GHz) band observations for a sample of 53 LzLCS sources.  They also observed a sub-sample of 17 LzLCS sources in the L (1-2) GHz band. They detected RC from both C- and S-bands in 24 sources for which they could estimate their radio spectral index across 3-6 GHz, denoted as alpha. They also use the RC luminosity to estimate their SFRs.
- **Results:** The radio spectral index of LzLCS sources spans a wide range from being flat ( ≥ −0.1) to very steep (≤ −1.0) compared to that of normal star-forming galaxies (alpha = -0.64). We find that the strongest leakers in our sample show flat α, weak leakers have α close to normal star-forming galaxies, and non-leakers are characterized by steep α.
  - **Explanations**  A combination of young ages, free-free absorption, and a flat cosmic-ray energy spectrum can altogether lead to a flat α. Non-leakers are characterized by steep spectra which can arise due to break/cutoff at high frequencies. Such a cutoff in the spectrum can arise in a single injection model of CRs characteristic of galaxies which have recently stopped star-formation. Alternatively, CR escape due to advection/diffusion can also steepen their spectra.  
  - **RC-SFR** The radio-based SFRs of LzLCS sources show a large scatter around the standard RC-SFR calibration.

- Conclusions: They find a relation between alpha and fesc. This hints at the interesting role of supernovae feedback, CRs, and magnetic fields in facilitating the escape (and/or the lack) of LyC photons.

[[2310.18464\] JADES: Using NIRCam Photometry to Investigate the Dependence of Stellar Mass Inferences on the IMF in the Early Universe (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.18464)

- **Aims:** The study investigates how changing the initial mass function (IMF) assumptions affects the estimated stellar masses of high-z galaxies to align with the Lambda Cold Dark Matter (LambdaCDM) cosmological model.
- **Methods:** The team used the Prospector SED fitting tool on a sample of over 100 galaxies from the JADES survey, and for some galaxies included additional data from the JEMS survey, testing different IMF scenarios.
- **Results:** They discovered that using IMFs that suggest lower stellar masses by a factor of three does not significantly change the fit of the observed galaxy light spectra.
- **Conclusions:** Varying the IMF allows for lower mass estimates of distant galaxies, which helps reconcile their bright luminosity with the expected mass limits of the early universe, suggesting that IMF flexibility is important for our understanding of these galaxies.

 [[2311.02158\] MOSEL survey: JWST reveals major mergers/strong interactions drive the extreme emission lines in the early universe (arxiv.org)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02158)

- **Aims:** 
