# Astro-ph: 2022-Nov

—- Shuaru, Zhu —-

### Nov 28

##### [An Hα Impression of Lyα Galaxies at z ' 6 with Deep JWST/NIRCam Imaging][https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.13620]

- **Important, Relevant **
-  **Keyword: LAEs, EOR** 

Aims: The Ly$\alpha$ galaxies at EOR are thought to be the main sources of EOR, however, the optical properties of these object at high redshift are not accessible when JWST is not available.

Context: The paper uses JWST & archival data of HST constrain the H$\alpha$ line, continuum properties of seven Ly$\alpha$ galaxies. These galaxies are identified during the previous spectroscopic survey campaign based on the ground-based telescope. These galaxies has wide range in the properties (e.g. UV color, Ly$\alpha$ luminosity).

Results:  i)  Ly$\alpha$ galaxies with bluer UV slopes tends to have higher escape fraction of Ly$\alpha$ photon; ii) galaxies with more luminous Ly$\alpha$ emission might have higher production efficiency of ionizing photon. iii) The results agree with the scenario that Ly$\alpha$ galaxies may serve as a significant contributor to cosmic reionization.

#### NOV 29

###### [First detections of stellar light from quasar host galaxies at z > 6][https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.14329v1]

* **Interesting**
* **Keyword: ** **Host galaxies of QSO**

Aim: Use two band imaging data of JWST NIRCam, the authors detect the host galaxies of QSO at $z=6$ for the first time.

Context: To detect the host galaxies of QSO, the targets of the observation are selected as low luminosity QSO. Then using the star as PSF model to extract the componet  of QSO. After this, the photometry and morphology are well measured and modeled. One host galaxies are detected in both band ($m_{F336W} = 23.23 \pm 0.15 {\rm\ mag}, m_{F150W} = 25.63 \pm 0.39 {\rm \ mag}$), another one is only detected in one band ($m_{F336W} = 24.80 \pm 0.07 {\rm\ mag}, m_{F150W, up\ limit} = 26.4{\rm \ mag}$). Using the SED fitting, the stellar mass of these sources are determined, which is in the order of magnitude of $10^{10}\ M_{\odot}$.

Results: i) The host galaxies are broadly consistent with the Size-luminosity relation derived using the field galaxies of blank field; ii) Both quasars show spatial offsets from the centers of their host galaxies.
